https://www.mercecunningham.org/the-work/cunningham-technique/

Key Concepts
Cunningham Technique is a rigorous form of training designed to create strength and flexibility of both the body and the mind.

Torso and Legwork
Cunningham Technique develops clarity, strength and flexibility in both the spine and legwork. The torso and legs are used either in coordination or opposition to one another.

Spatial Awareness
Spatial Awareness is gained by implementing multiple changes of direction within a single phrase where any point in the space can be the dancer's front. In more advanced work, various parts of the body move simultaneously in multiple directions.

Rhythmic Accuracy
A variety of meter and tempo are given throughout the class to build a foundation for rhythmic precision and dynamic movement.


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Graham_technique

Key Concepts
Graham technique is based on "contraction and release", and uses different parts of the body in opposition to one another to create spirals for dramatic tension. It also incorporates formal exaggerations of "natural" movements.


Contraction and release
The fundamental movement of Graham technique is the cycle between "contraction" and subsequent "release", which developed as a stylised representation of breathing. Along with the "fall and recovery" dualism of Doris Humphrey's technique, it is one of the most important concepts in early modern dance.

A classic Graham contraction is a movement originating from the deep pelvic muscles. These muscles, along with the abdominal muscles, pull the spine into a concave arc from the coccyx to the nape of the neck, with the pelvis tucked and shoulders forward.The spine grows longer, not shorter, in a contraction. The force of the contraction can be used to move the body through space or change its trajectory. The release may be considered a relatively passive return to a "normal" state, or alternatively an equally active outward propulsion of energy.[7][21] The contraction is associated with the exhale, and the release with the inhale, although this connection may be merely conceptual.

The indexical meaning of the contraction in Graham's choreography is generally that the dancer is overcome with emotion, although the details depend on the specific context.

Graham's decision to make movement originate from the core rather than distally echoes the style of Isadora Duncan, but Duncan wrote in her autobiography that movement originates in the solar plexus rather than the low abdomen.

Spiralling
The second fundamental concept in Graham technique is the spiral. The basic "spiralling" position consists of rotating the spine approximately 45° around its vertical axis, so that a dancer facing the front of the stage would have their shoulders aligned with the "Via Triumphalis", an imaginary line parallel to a corner-to-corner diagonal of the stage. In a "hip spiral", the movement initiates subtly from the hip and builds to maximum tension by pulling the opposing shoulder blade away from the initiating hip

Falls
Like other early modern choreographers, Graham used floor-work to explore the themes of weight and gravity in new ways; European students were "shocked" when Anna Sokolow introduced them to Graham's "percussive" falling techniques in the 1950s.

Graham falls use contractions and manipulate the body's centre of gravity, in order to control the timing and direction of a fall.There are a wide range of strictly codified Graham falls, including sitting and traveling falls; falls from elevation; and standing falls, which may be directed forward, backwards, to the side, or into a split. In almost all falls, the dancer exerts a strong upward force to counteract the force of gravity and suspend the body in space for artistic effect.

Graham falls can be used for dramatic effect, taking meaning in a choreographic context from manipulating the balance between actively suspending the body and surrendering to gravity.
